README.md, before:

# Unsupervised Learning algorithms cheat sheet

![unsupervised_preview.jpg](../img/unsupervised_preview.jpg)

This repository provides cheat sheets for different unsupervised learning machine learning concepts and algorithms.
This is not a complete tutorial, but it can help you better understand the structure of machine learning or to refresh your memory.

To know more about a particular algorithm, just Google it or check for it in [sklearn documentation](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/).

The content is presented in two formats:
- *.md  - to read in GitLab directly - [click here to read markdown](https://gitlab.com/Winston-90/unsupervised_algorithms/-/blob/main/Unsupervised%20Learning%20Algorithms.md)
- *.pdf - to read offline or print - [click here to read pdf](https://gitlab.com/Winston-90/unsupervised_algorithms/-/blob/main/Unsupervised%20Learning%20Algorithms.pdf)

Click here to read [by chapters](https://gitlab.com/Winston-90/unsupervised_algorithms/-/tree/main/chapters).

## Download pdf

[Click here to download pdf](https://gitlab.com/Winston-90/unsupervised_algorithms/-/raw/main/Unsupervised%20Learning%20Algorithms.pdf?inline=false).

## Contents

The following tasks and algorithms are mentioned:
- *Dimensionality Reduction*:
  - *Principal Component Analysis*
  - *Manifold Learning* - *LLE*, *Isomap*, *t-SNE*
  - *Autoencoders* and others
- *Anomaly Detection*:
  - *Isolation Forest*
  - *Local Outlier Factor*
  - *Minimum Covariance Determinant* and other algorithms from dimensionality reduction or supervised learning
- *Clustering*:
  - *K-Means*;
  - *Hierarchical Clustering* and *Spectral Clustering*;
  - *DBSCAN* and *OPTICS*;
  - *Affinity Propagation*;
  - *Mean Shift* and *BIRCH*;
  - *Gaussian Mixture Models*.
- *Density Estimation*;
- *Association Rule Learning*.

Commit message:

Update README with link to TDS and more

README.md, after:

# Unsupervised Learning algorithms cheat sheet

![unsupervised_preview.jpg](../img/unsupervised_preview.jpg)

This repository provides cheat sheets for different unsupervised learning machine learning concepts and algorithms.
This is not a complete tutorial, but it can help you better understand the structure of machine learning or to refresh your memory.

The content is presented in different formats:
- read the original article on Towards Data Science - [click here](https://towardsdatascience.com/unsupervised-learning-algorithms-cheat-sheet-d391a39de44a);
- read on GitLab directly in the markdown format: full cheat sheet - [click here](https://gitlab.com/Winston-90/unsupervised_algorithms/-/blob/main/Unsupervised%20Learning%20Algorithms.md) or by chapters - [click here](https://gitlab.com/Winston-90/unsupervised_algorithms/-/tree/main/chapters);
- read the PDF version offline or print - [click here](https://gitlab.com/Winston-90/unsupervised_algorithms/-/blob/main/Unsupervised%20Learning%20Algorithms.pdf)

## Download the PDF version

Download the PDF version of a unsupervised learning algorithms cheat sheet: [click here](https://gitlab.com/Winston-90/unsupervised_algorithms/-/raw/main/Unsupervised%20Learning%20Algorithms.pdf?inline=false).

## Contents

The following tasks and algorithms are mentioned:
- *Dimensionality Reduction*:
  - *Principal Component Analysis*
  - *Manifold Learning* - *LLE*, *Isomap*, *t-SNE*
  - *Autoencoders* and others
- *Anomaly Detection*:
  - *Isolation Forest*
  - *Local Outlier Factor*
  - *Minimum Covariance Determinant* and other algorithms from dimensionality reduction or supervised learning
- *Clustering*:
  - *K-Means*;
  - *Hierarchical Clustering* and *Spectral Clustering*;
  - *DBSCAN* and *OPTICS*;
  - *Affinity Propagation*;
  - *Mean Shift* and *BIRCH*;
  - *Gaussian Mixture Models*.
- *Density Estimation*;
- *Association Rule Learning*.
