## Other Unsupervised Learning Tasks

Although dimensionality reduction, anomaly detection, and clustering are the main and the most popular unsupervised learning tasks, there are others. 

Since the definition is blurry, any algorithm that deals with an unlabeled dataset can be considered solving some unsupervised learning task (for example calculating the mean or applying Student's t-test). However, researchers often identify two other tasks among others: *Density Estimation* and *Association Rule Learning*.

### Density Estimation

I have already briefly mentioned density estimation in the anomaly detection section.

Density Estimation is the task of estimating the density of the distribution of data points. More formally, it estimates the *probability density function* (PDF) of the random process that is generated by the given dataset. This task historically came from statistics, when it was necessary to estimate the PDF of some random variable and can be solved using statistical approaches. 

In the modern era, it is used mostly for *data analysis* and as an auxiliary tool for *anomaly detection* - data points located in regions of low density are more likely to be anomalies or outliers. Now it is usually solved with *density-based clustering* algorithms such as **DBSCAN** or **Mean Shift**, and using *Expectation-Maximization* algorithm and **Gaussian Mixture Models**.

### Association Rule Learning

Association Rule Learning (also called *Association Rules* or simply *Association*) is another unsupervised learning task. It is most often used in business analysis to maximize profits.

It aims to detect unobvious relationships between variables in a dataset, so also can be considered as a *data analysis* tool. There are many complex algorithms to solve it, but the most popular are:
- **Apriori** - based on breadth-first search;
- **Eclat** (*Equivalence Class Transformation*) - based on depth-first search; and
- **FP-Growth** - designed to detect frequently occurring patterns in the data.

A common example of such a task is *product placement*. For example,  knowing that people often buy onions together with potatoes in supermarkets, it makes sense to place them side by side to increase sales. Therefore, associative rules are used in promotional pricing, marketing, continuous production, etc. 

